# Rgb2Hires

This repository contains three windows projects:
* **libRgb2Hires**: a library to convert RGB image to the Apple II's HIRES format
* **Picture**: a program to convert a RGB png to a binary or an ASM that can be loaded to the HIRES memory pages of an Apple II.
  * Source image must be 140x192. Pixels are anamorphic: twice wider than tall.
  * Source image must contains six colors : BLACK, WHITE, ORANGE, GREEN, BLUE and PURPLE. The color may be approximation of the Apple II 6 colors. Please refer to the provided pic.
* **Tile**: given a RGB png tile sheet that statifies the same requirement as above, it extracts a 14x16 tile and converts it to ASM data. This data is not interleaved.

And one Apple II project:
* **Loader**: a program that will load and display a picture generated by the *Picture* program. A bash scripts is provided as an exemple to load the picture and the loader on an image disk. [AppleCommander](https://applecommander.github.io/) is required to do so.

For more information about the "Hires" format and its limitations, you can refer to my [website](https://www.xtof.info/blog/?p=768).

__Note:__

The Windows project should compile as is on other plateforms.

## Dependencies
### Windows / Linux projects (libHires, Picture, Tile)
* Magick++
    * On Windows, you have provide an environment variable called *MAGICK_HOME* and pointing to the ImageMagick folder.
    * On Linux, install libmagick++-dev
    * **Only ImageMagick 6 is supported**

### Apple II project (Loader)

### Dependencies
* [CC65](https://cc65.github.io/cc65/)
    * The crosscompiler suit. Please provide an environment variable, *CC65_HOME* pointing to your CC65 folder.

# Running
A correct source image, *test.png*, is provided as an example. Convert it using Picture, then copy it on a dsk image along with the Apple II loader. You can use or refer to the provided script.

